Credit score cards are a common risk control method in the financial industry. It uses personal information and data submitted by credit card applicants to predict the probability of future defaults and credit card borrowings. The bank is able to decide whether to issue a credit card to the applicant. Credit scores can objectively quantify the magnitude of risk. Generally speaking, credit score cards are based on historical data.  

The bank faces the problem of credit default risk of the customers if they grant a card or loan to a customer failing to repay loans. They can suffer great losses if this situation happens too often. Here what we want to do is try to find a model than can reliably distinguish high risk of default customers from the low-risk ones. We want to focus mostly on identifying the high-risk customers since they will impact the bank the most if they fail to repay a loan or credit.  

This project is directly linked to our specialization in Financial Engineering because it deals with credit risk management, a major issue for modern banking institutions. By analysing this data, we demonstrate how predictive modelling can minimize financial exposure and improve profitability. It perfectly illustrates the practical application of quantitative techniques to solve real-world economic problems and automate risk assessment. 

We formalised this credit risk problem as a binary classification task where we want to predict if a client will default or not. To define our target variable, we decided to use a strict rule based on the payment history: any client who has not paid their credit for more than 60 days is considered a "bad" client. Concretely, we took the credit records and transformed the status codes '2', '3', '4', and '5' which mean very late payments into a "Yes" for default (1), while all the others are "No" (0). We grouped this information by client ID, so if a person has been late even once, they are flagged as a defaulter. This step is crucial because it creates the ground truth for our model, and since missing a bad payer is much more expensive for the bank than refusing a good one, we will focus on maximizing the Recall metric instead of just accuracy. We also decided to implement several classification models to see which ones performed best and then optimise those models with several methods such as ensemble methods, grid search and feature optimisation. Moreover, we also noticed that our dataset was severely imbalanced with very few default customers which is typical in a credit default problem. So, we decided to implement several methods to reduce this imbalance such as SMOTE or penalising more errors made on the default class. 
